Hotel management system
Software requirement specification

1 Introduction
The hotel management system is a tool for booking the rooms of hotel through online by the
Customer. It provides the proper management tools and easy access to the customer information.

1.1 purpose
This hotel management system software requirement specification (srs) main objective is to
Provide a base for the foundation of the project. It gives a comprehensive view of how the system
Is supposed to work and what is to be expected by the end users. Client’s expectation and
Requirements are analyzed to produce specific unambiguous functional and non-functional
Requirements, so they can be used by development team with clear understanding to build a system
As per end user needs.
This srs for hms can also be used for future as basis for detailed understanding on how project
Was started. It provides a blueprint to upcoming new developers and maintenance teams to assist
In maintaining and modifying this project as per required changeability.

1.2 scope of the project
The HMS project is intended for the reservations for room that can be made through online. It will
Be able to automate the various operations of the hotel. Our hotel management system will have
Three end users: customer, receptionist, and hotel manager. Hotel management system will
Consists of booking management system, DBMS server, and report generator. Customers will
be able to check for room’s availability, select the rooms, and pay for the room. Receptionist will
Have access to update or modify booking details. Manager will able to view the financial report
And able to update room information such as cost and category.
The main goal of this introduced automated HMS software is to simplify every day process of
Hotel. Day to day hotels are increasing and they need to automate to provide customer ease of
Access. It will be able to take care of services to customer in a quick manner. This automation will
Be able to replace the drawbacks of large customer information physical files which were difficult
To handle. Secure transaction, quick retrieval of information, ease of use, quick recovery of errors,
Fault tolerance are some of the benefits that development team will be working on to achieve end
User satisfaction.

1.3 definitions, acronyms and abbreviations
SRS -software requirement specifications
HMS -hotel management system
DBMS -database management system
Blueprint a design technical plan
JDBC -java database connectivity
Http/https -hyper text transfer protocol/secure
EJB -enterprise java beans
API -application interface
Os -operating system
JSP -java server pages
RTM -requirement traceability matrix
Fr -functional requirement
Nfr -non functional requirement



1.4 overview
The remaining sections of this documentations describes the overall descriptions which includes
Product perspective and functions, characteristics of users. It also consists of assumptions, and
Constraints. Overall description is listed in section 2. Section 3 includes specific requirements
Which consists of functional and non-functional requirements, external interface requirements,
Software system attributes, performance requirements, capacity requirements, availability
Requirements, safety requirements and requirement traceability matrix.

2 overall description
2.1 product perspective
 
2.2 product functions
Our product general functions are:
1. customer registration
2. check for availability of rooms
3. display the rate
4. confirmation of booking
5. email notification
6. payment
7. set room details
8. manage booking details
9. generate report
10. customer service

2.3 user characteristics
There are 3 user levels in our hotel management system:
A. Hotel manager
B. Receptionist
C. Customers

Hotel manager
Manager have every access to the hotel system. Manager is solely responsible for managing hotel
Resources and staffs. Manager can view any report such as financial report, customer information,
Booking information, and room information, analyze them and take the decision accordingly.
Manger is required to have experience on managing hotel previously, and have base knowledge of
Database and application server.
Receptionist
Hotel receptionist sole purpose is to provide the quality customer service. She have least access
Than manager. She can manage the booking details. She can search for availability of rooms, add
The customer, confirm the booking, and update the booking details. Manager of hotel would
Probably want the receptionist who have good communication skills and command over english
Language. She should have basic it knowledge.
Customer
Customer are vital part of the system. Customer have access to view the vacant room information
And price range. They should be able to confirm the booking and cancel it if necessary. Customers
Have access to customer service desk portal to forward their inquiry. Customer should at least be
Capable to use the web UI interface.

2.4 constraints
I. Memory: system will have only 10gb space of data server.
Ii. Language requirement: software must be only in english.
Iii. Budget constraint: due to limited budget, hms is intended to very simple and just for
Basic functionalities. UI is going to be very simple.
Iv. Implementation constraint: application should be based on java only.
V. Reliability requirements: system should sync frequently to backup server in order to
Avoid the data loss during failure, so it can be recovered.

2.5 assumption and dependencies
It is assumed that system developed will work perfectly that’s going to be developed under the
Windows os, and apache server with mongo db database. If incase of any difficulties, srs
Should be flexible enough to change accordingly.

3 specific requirements

3.1 functional requirements
3.1.1 registration
Fr1. The customer should be able to register with their details
Fr2. The system should record following customer details into member database.
 name
 email
 password
 address
 dob
Fr3. The system shall send verification message to email

3.1.2 logging in
Fr4. The system should verify the customer email & password against the member database
When logging in
Fr5. After login, member should be directed to home screen

3.1.3 reservation
Fr6. The system should enable customer to check for availability of rooms
Fr7. The system should display rate for all rooms
Fr8. The system should allow customer to confirm or cancel the booking
Fr9. The system should record booking details into database

3.1.4 receptionist access
Fr10. The system should allow receptionist to update, add or delete booking information
Fr11.The System should provide customer desk portal access to receptionist for providing
Response to customer inquiry

3.1.5 manager access
Fr12. The system should generate financial and customer report for manager
Fr13. The system should enable manager full modification access to customer ,booking and
Room information

3.1.6 payment management system
Fr14. The system should allow customer to pay bill via online using credit or debit card
3.3 performance requirements
Nf1. Data in database should be updated within 2 seconds.
Nf2. Query results must return results within 5 seconds
Nf3. Load time of ui should not take more than 2 seconds
Nf4. Login validation should be done within 3 seconds
Nf5. Response to customer inquiry must be done within 5 minutes.

3.4 security requirements
Nf6. All external communications between the data’s server and client must be encrypted
Nf7. All data must be stored, protected or protectively marked.
Nf8. Payment process should use http over secure protocol to secure the payment transactions

3.5 safety requirements
Nf9. Database should be backed up every hour.
Nf10. Under failure, system should be able to come back at normal operation under an hour.

3.6 capacity requirements
Nf11. Not more than 10,000 members to be registered
Nf12. System need to handle at least 20 transactions during peak hours.
3.7 availability requirements
Nf13. Report should be generated automatically every day for manager and anytime upon request.

3.8 software system attributes
1. correctness: this system should satisfy the normal regular hotel management operations
Precisely to fulfill the end user objectives
2. efficiency: enough resources to be implemented to achieve the particular task efficiently
Without any hassle.
3. flexibility: system should be flexible enough to provide space to add new features and to
Handle them conveniently
4. integrity: system should focus on securing the customer information and avoid data
Losses as much as possible
5. portability: the system should run in any micro-soft windows environment.
6. usability: the system should provide user manual to every level of users.
7. testability: the system should be able to be tested to confirm the performance and clients
Specifications.
8. maintainability: the system should be maintainable.

